Through a mobile app, users will be able to register by entering an email and password, or with their Gmail account. After logging in, they will be able to record security incidents in the app.
When the user logs into the app, a message will appear on the screen asking them to activate their location; otherwise, they won’t be able to proceed.
After activating location services, the app will display a main screen with a menu featuring the following options: a. Report Incident: Users will be able to select the following incidents to add to the record: Theft, Armed Robbery, Pickpocketing, Assault, Door Opening, Suspicious Person, Harassment. The time of the incident will also be recorded, but this data will be automatically captured when the user completes the report and presses the "Submit" button. The name of the nearest station to the user will also be displayed automatically, as it will be determined based on the user's location at the time of reporting the incident (Google Maps API will be used to indicate the nearest station). The final report will store the type of incident, the TransMilenio station, the time the incident was recorded, and the user who submitted the report in a database. This database will feed a neural network that will learn from this data to generate statistics shown in the "Incident Map" option and predictions in the "Security Predictive Analysis" option. b. Incident Map: A map of the TransMilenio system will display all the stations, and users will be able to select each station to view its indicators, incident report statistics, and the number and types of reported incidents. There will be three security levels identified by color: High Insecurity Level (red), Medium Insecurity Level (yellow), and Low Security Level (green). Additionally, each station will display an icon representing the most reported type of incident at that station. This menu option will also include filter buttons to display stations by their insecurity level and another filter to display stations based on the most reported type of incident. There will also be a button to clear the filter. c. Security Predictive Analysis: In this menu option, users will be able to view predictions about which stations might become more insecure at specific times. For example, they may see messages such as "In 30 minutes, the insecurity level at station X is likely to increase." d. Notifications: A notification button will display the incidents being reported in real time. The number of notifications received will be added to a counter. When the user presses the notification button, a pop-up window will display the incidents currently being recorded.
A neural network will be fed with information from the database, generating statistics and predictions over time.








